Week 1:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What is the difference between Bar and Column charts?

A. The length of the bars 
B. The width of the bars 
C. One uses vertical bars, and one uses horizontal bars 
D. The number of bars 

ANS: C. One uses vertical bars, and one uses horizontal bars 

2. Question 2
Which chart uses nested rectangles?

A. Sparklines 
B. Treemaps 
C. Scatter charts 
D. Bubble charts 

ANS: B. Treemaps 

3. Question 3
Which two charts typically have categories arranged on the horizontal axis and values on the vertical axis? 

A. Column and line charts 
B. Column and pie charts 
C. Pie and bar charts 
D. Pie and line charts 

ANS: A. Column and line charts 

4. Question 4
When you add a filter to a pivot chart, how do you update the data in the original source pivot table?

A. You do not need to do anything, as changes are immediately reflected in the pivot table data too 
B. You need to manually add the filter to the pivot table in the PivotTable Fields pane  
C. You need to refresh the pivot table worksheet to refresh the data 
D. You need to click Refresh All in the Data group of the Analyze tab for the pivot table 

ANS: A. You do not need to do anything, as changes are immediately reflected in the pivot table data too 

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What is a capability of line charts?

A. Compare the frequency of data sets 
B. Compare different, unrelated data sets 
C. Compare different, but related data sets 
D. Compare similar, unrelated data sets 

ANS: C. Compare different, but related data sets 

2. Question 2
Each portion of a pie chart represents static values or categories. What is the sum of the categories equal to?  

A. 50%
B. 75%
C. 99% 
D. 100%

ANS:  D. 100%

3. Question 3
According to the ‘Introduction to Charts’ video, which chart is one of the most commonly used?

A. Bubble chart 
B. Bar chart 
C. Scatter chart 
D. Funnel chart 

ANS: B. Bar chart  

4. Question 4
In the ‘Expert Viewpoints: Using Visualizations to Tell a Data Story’ video, one expert mentioned two software programs that help highlight the important information. Which were the two software programs? 

A. Db2 and SQL 
B. PowerPoint and Excel 
C. Google Docs and Word 
D. Google and Bing 

ANS: B. PowerPoint and Excel

5. Question 5
In the ‘Creating Basic Charts in Excel’ video, which type of chart shows the relative contribution of unit sales from Ford car models? 

A. Pie chart 
B. Bar chart 
C. Line chart 
D. Funnel chart 

ANS:  A. Pie chart 

6. Question 6
How does a pivot chart differ from a standard chart in Excel? 

A. A pivot chart contains data series, categories, and chart axes 
B. A pivot chart cannot be a line, pie or bar chart 
C. A pivot chart uses data from a pivot table 
D. A pivot chart always has its data arranged in columns and rows 

ANS: C. A pivot chart uses data from a pivot table  

7. Question 7
What is the main difference between Area and Column charts? 

A. An area chart uses horizontal bars, and a column chart uses rows 
B. A column chart uses vertical bars, and an area chart uses data points 
C. A column chart uses data points, and an area chart uses vertical bars 
D. An area chart makes sense of complicated data and a column chart shows chart axis like basic charts 

ANS:  B. A column chart uses vertical bars, and an area chart uses data points 

Week 2:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What are scatter charts commonly used for? 

A. To compare sales, and inventory data values 
B. To display distribution of data grouped into bins 
C. To compare statistical, scientific, and engineering data values 
D. To compare values across hierarchy levels 

ANS: C. To compare statistical, scientific, and engineering data values 

2. Question 2
When you are creating a sparklines visualization, which two methods can you use to specify where the sparklines should appear on a worksheet? (Select two answers)

A. Highlight the column, then right-click the intended cell location, and select Insert.
B. Enter the cell reference in the Location Range box.
C. Right-click the intended cell location, and select Paste.
D. On the worksheet select a cell and Excel will add the cell reference to the Location Range box for you.

ANS: B, D

3. Question 3
What's one data type intended for waterfall charts?

A. Progressively decreasing proportions 
B. Non-comparable categories 
C. Stock performance data 
D. Financial data 

ANS: D. Financial data 

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What do treemaps use to represent hierarchical data categories? 

A. Treemaps use interconnected circles.
B. Treemaps use data points on a line.
C. Treemaps use color, size, and closeness of shapes.
D. Treemaps use different shapes.

ANS: C. Treemaps use color, size, and closeness of shapes.

2. Question 2
Histograms can look like a bar chart, what’s the key difference? 

A. Histograms use Axis Options to display different bin sizes.
B. Bar charts compare data and histograms display the distribution of data.
C. Histograms use bins.
D. Bar charts use horizontal bars.

ANS: B. Bar charts compare data and histograms display the distribution of data.

3. Question 3
What kind of data works best with filled map charts?  

A. Data containing geographical regions 
B. Complicated data 
C. Scientific data 
D. Raw data 

ANS: A. Data containing geographical regions 

4. Question 4
What are sparklines typically used for?

A. To show data trends.
B. To contrast numerical values.
C. To highlight a data range.
D. To show regional information.

ANS: A. To show data trends.

Week 2:

Practice Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
Which of the following applications would be considered an advanced data analysis and visualization application? (Select all that apply)

A. Bokeh (in Python) 
B. Excel (Full Desktop version) 
C. Cognos Analytics 
D. Google Sheets    
E. Tableau 

ANS: A, C, E

2. Question 2
According to the ‘Creating a Simple Dashboard using Excel’ video, which of the following should you have already done prior to creating a dashboard? (Select all that apply) 

A. Created pivot tables to help analyze data.
B. Created a data analysis findings report.
C. Formatted the data as a table.
D. Verified data is clean and error free.

ANS: A, C, D

Graded Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
Which of the following, do dashboards provide in a data analysis application? (Select all that apply)

A. A consolidated view of business data.
B. Key performance indicators (KPIs).
C. A static data-findings report for your business data.
D. A controllable self-service business intelligence (BI) interface.

ANS: A, B, D

2. Question 2
According to the ‘Creating a Simple Dashboard using Excel’ video, what did subject matter experts advise when building dashboards?

A. Bright colors highlight key points.
B. Displaying too much information means your key points can get lost.
C. Having as many visualizations as possible can help you clearly define your key points.
D. Use numbers as much as possible to help focus users on your key points.

ANS: B

Week 3:

Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
Which URL do you navigate to, in order to sign up for a trial of Cognos Analytics?

A. IBM.COM/TRIAL_COGNOS 
B. IBM.BIZ/TRY_COGNOS 
C. IBM.COM/TRY_COGNOS 
D. IBM.BIZ/COGNOS_TRIAL 

ANS:  B. IBM.BIZ/TRY_COGNOS 

2. Question 2
In Cognos Analytics, which are the two main navigational areas of the interface? 

A. Page links and icons 
B. Drop-down menu and the right pane 
C. Left pane and top bar 
D. Menu links and Help pages 

ANS: C. Left pane and top bar 

3. Question 3
What happens first when you use the Cognos Assistant to help create a dashboard?

A. You can either ask a question directly or ask the Assistant to suggest some questions to ask.
B. It suggests which visualizations to add to your dashboard.
C. It automatically creates a dashboard.
D. It resizes and rearranges your visualizations on a dashboard.

ANS:  A. You can either ask a question directly or ask the Assistant to suggest some questions to ask.

4. Question 4
What are the two ways to create calculations in Cognos Analytics? (Select two answers) 

A. Ask the Cognos Assistant.
B. Search for calculations.
C. Select operators and functions from the left pane.
D. Start typing in the Expression box.

ANS: C, D

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
When signing up for a trial of Cognos Analytics, which item in the account form is the key one to take note of? 

A. Your address 
B. Your name 
C. Your country /region 
D. Your closest data center 

ANS: D. Your closest data center 

2. Question 2
In Cognos Analytics what is the first step to build a dashboard?

A. Select visualizations 
B. Provide questions and answers to the assistant 
C. Upload a spreadsheet or workbook 
D. Choose a template 

ANS: D. Choose a template 

3. Question 3
Which of the following methods can be used in Cognos Analytics to create visualizations? (Select all that apply)

A. By manually populating by dragging and dropping.
B. By using widgets.
C. By automatic recommended visualizations.
D. By using the Assistant to suggest questions and suggested visualizations.

ANS: A, C, D

4. Question 4
How can you create infographics in Cognos Analytics?

A. Ask the Assistant different questions.
B. Drag and drop a widget shape icon onto a visualization.
C. Modify navigation paths.
D. Use Exclude to filter out some data.

ANS:  B. Drag and drop a widget shape icon onto a visualization.



