Week 1:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
Of the following, which one would be considered a core capability of spreadsheets? 

A. Statistical analysis 
B. Selling stocks 
C. Storage 
D. Converting documents 

ANS: A. Statistical analysis 

2. Question 2
When you open an Excel workbook or spreadsheet, what kind of file is it? 

A. .docx
B. .gsheet
C. .pdf  
D. .xlsx

ANS: D. .xlsx

3. Question 3
According to the video, on the Excel Home tab what groups are listed?  

A. Font, Paragraph, Styles, Editing
B. Font, Alignment, Number, Styles 
C. Tools, Pens, Convert, Replay 
D. Table, Illustrations, Add-ins, Charts

ANS:  B. Font, Alignment, Number, Styles 

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
Which of the following key Data Analyst tasks is typically done last? 

A. Collecting data 
B. Cleaning data 
C. Visualizing data 
D. Analyzing data 

ANS: C. Visualizing data 

2. Question 2
How are Excel worksheet cells referenced? 

A. Row number first then column letter 
B. Cell number first then row number
C. Column number first then row letter 
D. Column letter first then row number 

ANS: D. Column letter first then row number 

3. Question 3
Which of the following Excel keyboard shortcuts could be used to find how many rows of data you have in a worksheet, assuming you have no empty rows in your data? Select all that apply.

A. CTRL+Down 
B. CTRL+End 
C. CTRL+Up 
D. CTRL+Home 

ANS: A. CTRL+Down,  B. CTRL+End

Week 2:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
How can you zoom to a specific area of data in an Excel spreadsheet? 

A. Use the Zoom button 
B. Use the Freeze Frames option
C. Use the Zoom to Selection button
D. Use the 100% button

ANS: C. Use the Zoom to Selection button

2. Question 2
What do you use the AutoFill feature for?

A. Automatically fill cells with data in a sequential series or pattern
B. Move or copy data between spreadsheets
C. Paste data in a cell with the same column width settings
D. Drag selected data to another place

ANS:  A. Automatically fill cells with data in a sequential series or pattern

3. Question 3
What is one of the key components of a typical formula?

A. Division
B. Percentage
C. Calculation
D. Reference

ANS: D. Reference

4. Question 4
What happens when you use the median calculation but select an even number of values in a range?

A. Divides the selected range in half   
B. Returns both of the middle values of the selected range 
C. Returns middle figure between the two middle values in the selected range
D. Returns one of the middle value of the selected range

ANS: C. Returns middle figure between the two middle values in the selected range

5. Question 5
What are Excel cell references by default?

A. Absolute references
B. Mixed references 
C. Relative references
D. Cell references must be assigned 

ANS:  C. Relative references

6. Question 6
When creating formulas, what is a mixed reference? 

A. Both cell references are either absolute, or relative 
B. One cell reference is absolute, the other one is relative   
C. One cell reference is absolute, the other must be manually assigned 
D. Both cell references are manually assigned 

ANS: B. One cell reference is absolute, the other one is relative 

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
Which of the following is a valid way of editing existing data in a cell? Select all that apply

A. Select the cell you want to edit and press Enter 
B. Press F2 
C. Press CTRL+N 
D. Select the cell you want to edit and then click in the formula bar 

ANS: B, D

2. Question 2
In Excel for the web, how can you format data in cells to use a currency? Select all that apply

A. Right-click on a cell and select Number Format 
B. Select the data and click the Decrease Decimal button 
C. Select "More Number Formats" from the Number Format drop-down list in the Number group
D. Select "Format cells" from the Format drop-down list in the Cells group 

ANS: A, C

3. Question 3
What character do you type first when you want to start writing a formula?

A. Percentage sign '%' 
B. Plus sign '+' 
C. Equal sign '=' 
D. Division sign '/' 

ANS: C. Equal sign '=' 

4. Question 4
What is one of the functions found in the AutoSum drop-down list?

A. General 
B. Number 
C. Count Numbers 
D. Accounting 

ANS: C. Count Numbers 

5. Question 5
In Excel Desktop, what is one of the function categories on the Formulas tab, in the Function Library group?

A. Functional
B. Medical
C. Analytical
D. Lookup & Reference 

ANS: D. Lookup & Reference 

6. Question 6
How do you make a cell reference absolute in a formula?

A. Put a percentage sign (%) behind the column or row identifiers in the formula 
B. Put an asterisk (*) in front of the column or behind the row identifiers in the formula 
C. Put a plus sign (+) between the column and row identifiers in the formula 
D. Put a dollar sign ($) in front of the column and/or row identifiers in the formula 

ANS: D. Put a dollar sign ($) in front of the column and/or row identifiers in the formula 

7. Question 7
Formula errors in Excel are preceded by a hash symbol (#). What does it mean when multiple hash symbols exist in a cell? 

A. Formula contains multiple errors 
B. Column isn't wide enough or it contains negative date or time values 
C. Formula is missing a cell reference 
D. Formula contains unrecognized text 

ANS:  B. Column isn't wide enough or it contains negative date or time values 

Week 3:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What is the first and most significant part of data quality?

A. Accuracy
B. Reliability
C. Completeness
D. Relevance

ANS: A. Accuracy

2. Question 2
Which data quality trait refers to the availability and accessibility of the data?

A. Timeliness
B. Completeness
C. Accuracy
D. Reliability  

ANS: A. Timeliness

3. Question 3
What is a delimited file?  

A. file with text qualifiers between data fields 
B. file with no spaces between data fields   
C. file with data fields separated by fixed-widths 
D. file with data fields separated by characters like commas or tabs 

ANS: D. file with data fields separated by characters like commas or tabs 

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
Which data quality trait can be summarized by asking if the data is really necessary? 

A. Timeliness 
B. Reliability 
C. Relevance 
D. Completeness 

ANS: C. Relevance 

2. Question 2
Which data quality trait refers to the availability and accessibility of the data?

A. Accuracy 
B. Timeliness 
C. Completeness 
D. Reliability 

ANS: B. Timeliness 

3. Question 3
After importing a text file into Excel, you find some columns aren't showing all data. How can you fix all column widths at the same time?

A. select all columns and double-click one of the selected column dividers 
B. drag a divider across 
C. shorten the text so it fits 
D. click the Format button 

ANS: A. select all columns and double-click one of the selected column dividers 

Week 3:
Practice Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
According to the video, what's one of the easiest common errors or inconsistencies to fix when importing data?  

A. Extra white space
B. Spelling mistakes 
C. Empty rows
D. Duplicated data 

ANS: B. Spelling mistakes

2. Question 2
What is the first thing you should do when checking spelling errors in Excel?  

A. Click the Spelling button   
B. Select the data you want to check for spelling   
C. Find the misspelled data 
D. Use a dictionary

ANS: B. Select the data you want to check for spelling    

3. Question 3
What feature can you use to fix text that appears in mixed case? 

A. AutoSum  
B. Filter  
C. Functions  
D. Audits  

ANS: C. Functions  

4. Question 4
What is one of the functions you can use to change the text case in your data?  

A. CAP  
B. LOWER  
C. CASE  
D. STRUCTURE 

ANS: B. LOWER  

5. Question 5
What does the Flash Fill feature have in common with the UPPER, LOWER, and PROPER functions? 

A. Repairs a REF error
B. Lookup & Reference 
C. Requires a helper column or row   
D. Keeps cell formatting

ANS: C. Requires a helper column or row 

6. Question 6
Which of the following tasks can Flash Fill do? Select all that apply.

A. Set column width 
B. Remove empty rows
C. Split one column of data into two 
D. Combine two columns of data into one

ANS: C, D

Graded Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
What is one of the issues that empty rows cause in your spreadsheet?

A. Data will be hidden 
B. Indexing function error 
C. Spell-check will fail 
D. Formula errors 

ANS: D. Formula errors 

2. Question 2
How can you remove all empty rows at the same time in your imported spreadsheet?

A. Select all rows and then filter for Blanks, select these and then delete 
B. Use Search & Replace to look for empty rows and delete 
C. You must delete the empty rows one at a time 
D. Use Remove Duplicates to remove empty rows 

ANS: A. Select all rows and then filter for Blanks, select these and then delete 

3. Question 3
There are two methods to locate and remove duplicated rows in Excel, what is the easiest way? 

A. Select a column and choose Conditional Formatting > Highlight Cells Rules > Duplicate Values 
B. Select all data and click the Remove Duplicates button 
C. Use the HLOOKUP function 
D. Search for the first character in rows 

ANS: B. Select all data and click the Remove Duplicates button 

4. Question 4
What does the PROPER function do?

A. Changes text to sentence case 
B. Repairs a REF error 
C. Converts lower case text to upper case 
D. Converts upper case text to lower case 

ANS: A. Changes text to sentence case  

5. Question 5
Why do you need to use the Paste Values option when you paste contents from a helper row to the original row?

A. Ensures consistency 
B. Validates the copied function 
C. Keeps cell formatting the same 
D. Makes sure formulas aren’t also copied 

ANS: D. Makes sure formulas aren’t also copied 

6. Question 6
What is one of the ways to apply new data formats to the rest of a column? 

A. Format Painter tool 
B. Format button 
C. Paste Special tool 
D. Text Import wizard 

ANS: A. Format Painter tool 

7. Question 7
What tools or features can we use to split a single column with two names in, into two separate columns with a name in each? Select all that apply

A. Flash Fill feature 
B. Paste Special 
C. Format Painter tool 
D. Text to Columns feature 

ANS: A, D
