Week 1:
Modern Data Ecosystem and the role of Data Analytics:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
Which emerging technology has made it possible for every enterprise to have access to limitless storage and high-performance computing?

A. Big Data
B. Internet of Things
C. Machine learning
D. Cloud computing 

ANS: D. Cloud Computing

2. Question 2
Which of the data roles is responsible for extracting, integrating, and organizing data into data repositories?

A. Business Intelligence Analyst
B. Data Engineer
C. Data Analyst
D. Data Scientist

ANS: B. Data Engineer

3. Question 3
When you analyze historical data to predict future outcomes what type of Data Analytics are you performing?

A. Predictive Analytics
B. Descriptive Analytics
C. Diagnostic Analytics
D. Prescriptive Analytics

ANS: A. Predictive Analytics

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
A modern data ecosystem includes a network of continually evolving entities. It includes: 

A. Data providers, databases, and programming languages 
B. Data sources, enterprise data repository, business stakeholders, and tools, applications, and infrastructure to manage data 
C. Data sources, databases, and programming languages 
D. Social media sources, data repositories, and APIs 

ANS: B. Data sources, enterprise data repository, business stakeholders, and tools, applications, and infrastructure to manage data 

2. Question 2
Data Analysts work within the data ecosystem to:

A. Gather, clean, mine, and analyze data for deriving insights 
B. Develop and maintain data architectures 
C. Provide business intelligence solutions by monitoring data on different business functions 
D. Build Machine Learning or Deep Learning models 

ANS: A. Gather, clean, mine, and analyze data for deriving insights 

3. Question 3
When we analyze data in order to understand why an event took place, which of the four types of data analytics are we performing?

A. Predictive Analysis
B. Diagnostic Analysis
C. Descriptive Analysis
D. Prescriptive Analysis

ANS: B. Diagnostic Analysis

4. Question 4
The first step in the data analysis process is to gain an in-depth understanding of the problem and the desired outcome. What are you seeking answers to at this stage of the data analysis process?

A. The data you need 
B. Where you are and where you need to be
C. What will be measured and how it will be measured
D. The best tools for sourcing data

ANS: B. Where you are and where you need to be

5. Question 5
From the provided list, select the three emerging technologies that are shaping today’s data ecosystem. 

A. Cloud Computing, Internet of Things, and Dashboarding 
B. Cloud Computing, Machine Learning, and Big Data 
C. Big Data, Internet of Things, and Dashboarding 
D. Machine Language, Cloud Computing, and Internet of Things 

ANS: B. Cloud Computing, Machine Learning, and Big Data 

Practice Quiz 2:

1.Question 1
Which of these skills is essential to the role of a Data Analyst? 

A. Big Data Engineering
B. Statistics
C. Deep Learning models 
D. Machine learning

ANS: B. Statistics

2. Question 2
What, according to Sivaram Jaladi, goes a long way in lending credibility to your data analysis findings?

A. Sharing your process of arriving at the findings with your stakeholders
B. Making sure the presentation looks good
C. Writing good queries
D. Networking with your stakeholders

ANS: A. Sharing your process of arriving at the findings with your stakeholders

Graded Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
Why is proficiency in Statistics an important skill for a Data Analyst?

A. For acquiring data from multiple sources
B. For creating queries to extract required data 
C. For identifying patterns and correlations in data 
D. For creating project documentation 

ANS: C. For identifying patterns and correlations in data 


2. Question 2
Which of these is one of the soft skills required to be a successful Data Analyst?

A. Integrate data coming from multiple sources 
B. Filter, clean, and standardize data 
C. Work collaboratively with cross-functional teams 
D. Prepare reports and dashboards

ANS: C. Work collaboratively with cross-functional teams 


3. Question 3
Which of the data analyst functional skills helps research and interpret data, theorize, and make forecasts?

A. Proficiency in Statistics
B. Analytical skills 
C. Problem-solving skills 
D. Probing skills 

ANS: B. Analytical skills 

4. Question 4 
In “A day in the life of a Data Analyst”, what according to Sivaram Jaladi forms a large part of a Data Analyst’s job?

A. Cleaning and preparing data 
B. Interacting with stakeholders 
C. Creating a report
D. Generating hypotheses

ANS: A. Cleaning and preparing data 

5. Question 5
In “A day in the life of a Data Analyst”, what are some of the data points that were useful in analyzing the use case. (Select all that apply)

A. Serial number of the meters
B. Employment history of the complainants
C. Average billing amount of complainants
D. Age and education details of complainants

ANS: A, C

Week 2:
The Data Ecosystems and Lagnguage for Data Professionals:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What data type is typically found in databases and spreadsheets?

A. Social media content
B. Semi-structured data
C. Structured data
D. Unstructured data

ANS: C. Structured data

2. Question 2
Which of these data sources is an example of semi-structured data?

A. Social media feeds
B. Documents 
C. Network and web logs
D. Emails

ANS: D. Emails

3. Question 3
Which one of the provided file formats is commonly used by APIs and Web Services to return data?  

A. Delimited file 
B. JSON  
C. XML 
D. XLS

ANS: B. JSON 

4. Question 4
What is one example of the relational databases discussed in the video?

A. Flat files 
B. SQL Server 
C. XML
D. Spreadsheet 

ANS: B. SQL Server 

5. Question 5
Which of the following languages is one of the most popular querying languages in use today?

A. R
B. Java
C. Python
D. SQL

ANS: D. SQL

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
In the data analyst’s ecosystem, languages are classified by type. What are shell and scripting languages most commonly used for? 

A. Manipulating data 
B. Building apps 
C. Automating repetitive operational tasks
D. Querying data 

ANS: C. Automating repetitive operational tasks

2. Question 2
Which of the following is an example of unstructured data?   

A. XML
B. Spreadsheets
C. Video and audio files
D. Zipped files 

ANS: C. Video and audio files

3. Question 3
Which one of these file formats is independent of software, hardware, and operating systems, and can be viewed the same way on any device? 

A. XML
B. XLSX
C. Delimited text file
D. PDF

ANS: D. PDF

4. Question 4
Which data source can return data in plain text, XML, HTML, or JSON among others? 

A. XML  
B. Delimited text file 
C. API
D. PDF 

ANS: D. PDF 

5. Question 5
According to the video “Languages for Data Professionals,” which of the programming languages supports multiple programming paradigms, such as object-oriented, imperative, functional, and procedural, making it suitable for a wide variety of use cases?  

A. PowerShell 
B. Python
C. Java  
D. Unix/Linux Shell 

ANS: B. Python

Practice Quiz 2:


1. Question 1
Structured Query Language, or SQL, is the standard querying language for what type of data repository?

A. NoSQL 
B. RDBMS
C. Flat Files
D. Data lake 

ANS: B. RDBMS

2. Question 2
In use cases for RDBMS, what is one of the reasons that relational databases are so well suited for OLTP applications?

A. Allow you to make changes in the database even while a query is being executed 
B. Offer easy backup and restore options 
C. Support the ability to insert, update, or delete small amounts of data  
D. Minimize data redundancy 

ANS: C. Support the ability to insert, update, or delete small amounts of data  

3. Question 3
Which NoSQL database type stores each record and its associated data within a single document and also works well with Analytics platforms?

A. Key-value store  
B. Graph-based
C. Column-based 
D. Document-based 

ANS: D. Document-based 

4. Question 4
What type of data repository is used to isolate a subset of data for a particular business function, purpose, or community of users?

A. Data Pipeline
B. Data Mart
C. Data Lake
D. Data Warehouse

ANS: B. Data Mart

5. Question 5
What does the attribute “Velocity” imply in the context of Big Data?

A. The speed at which data accumulates 
B. Quality and origin of data 
C. Scale of data 
D. Diversity of data 

ANS:  A. The speed at which data accumulates 

6. Question 6
Which of the Big Data processing tools provides distributed storage and processing of Big Data? 

A. Hive
B. Hadoop
C. ETL
D. Spark

ANS: B. Hadoop

Graded Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
Data Marts and Data Warehouses have typically been relational, but the emergence of what technology has helped to let these be used for non-relational data?

A. ETL
B. NoSQL
C. Data Lake
D. SQL

ANS: B. NoSQL

2. Question 2
What is one of the most significant advantages of an RDBMS? 

A. Enforces a limit on the length of data fields
B. Is ACID-Compliant 
C. Requires source and destination tables to be identical for migrating data 
D. Can store only structured data  

ANS: B. Is ACID-Compliant 

3. Question 3
Which one of the NoSQL database types uses a graphical model to represent and store data, and is particularly useful for visualizing, analyzing, and finding connections between different pieces of data? 

A. Column-based 
B. Document-based
C. Key value store  
D. Graph-based

ANS: D. Graph-based

4. Question 4
Which of the data repositories serves as a pool of raw data and stores large amounts of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data in their native formats?   

A. Data Lakes
B. Data Marts
C. Data Warehouses
D. Relational Databases

ANS: A. Data Lakes

5. Question 5
What does the attribute “Veracity” imply in the context of Big Data?

A. Diversity of the type and sources of data 
B. Scale of data
C. Accuracy and conformity of data to facts
D. The speed at which data accumulates

ANS: C. Accuracy and conformity of data to facts

6. Question 6
Apache Spark is a general-purpose data processing engine designed to extract and process Big Data for a wide range of applications. What is one of its key use cases?

A. Scalable and reliable Big Data storage
B. Consolidate data across the organization
C. Fast recovery from hardware failures   
D. Perform complex analytics in real-time 

ANS: D. Perform complex analytics in real-time 

Week 3:
Practice Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What are the requirements in order for data to be reliable? (Select all that apply)  

A. Data should be structured
B. Data should be relevant 
C. Data should be free of all errors   
D. Data should be easy to collect   

ANS: B. Data should be relevant, C. Data should be free of all errors 

2. Question 2
What type of data is produced by wearable devices, smart buildings, and medical devices?  

A. Observation study data
B. Survey data
C. Sensor data
D. Census data

ANS: C. Sensor data

3. Question 3
What type of data is semi-structured and has some organizational properties but not a rigid schema?

A. Online forms   
B. Data from OLTP systems
C. Emails
D. Web logs

ANS: C. Emails

Graded quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What are some of the steps in the process of “Identifying Data”? (Select all that apply)  

A. Define a plan for collecting data 
B. Define the checkpoints 
C. Determine the visualization tools that you will use
D. Determine the information you want to collect   

ANS: A. Define a plan for collecting data, D. Determine the information you want to collect 

2. Question 2
What type of data refers to information obtained directly from the source? 

A. Third-party data   
B. Primary data   
C. Sensor data   
D. Secondary data  

ANS: B. Primary data   

3. Question 3
Web scraping is used to extract what type of data? 

A. Images, videos, and data from NoSQL databases 
B. Data from news sites and NoSQL databases 
C. Text, videos, and images 
D. Text, videos, and data from relational databases 

ANS: C. Text, videos, and images

4. Question 4
Data obtained from an organization’s internal CRM, HR, and workflow applications is classified as:

A. Copyright-free data 
B. Secondary data 
C. Primary data 
D. Third-party data 

ANS: C. Primary data 

5. Question 5
Which of the provided options offers simple commands to specify what is to be retrieved from a relational database?

A. Web Scraping 
B. API 
C. RSS Feed 
D. SQL 

ANS: D. SQL 

Practice Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
What is one of the common structural transformations used for combining data from one or more tables? 

A. Cleaning
B. Joins 
C. Normalization 
D. Denormalization

ANS: B. Joins 

2. Question 2
What tool allows you to discover, cleanse, and transform data with built-in operations?

A. Watson Studio Refinery
B. OpenRefine
C. Google DataPrep
D. Trifacta Wrangler

ANS: A. Watson Studio Refinery

3. Question 3
What is data called that does not fit within the context of the use case?  

A. Missing data 
B. Irrelevant data 
C. Relevant data
D. Duplicate data 

ANS: B. Irrelevant data 

Graded Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
What does a typical data wrangling workflow include? 

A. Validating the quality of the transformed data 
B. Using mathematical techniques to identify correlations in data 
C. Recognizing patterns 
D. Predicting probabilities 

ANS: A. Validating the quality of the transformed data 

2. Question 2
OpenRefine is an open-source tool that allows you to:  

A. Enforces applicable data governance policies automatically 
B. Transform data into a variety of formats such as TSV, CSV, XLS, XML, and JSON 
C. Automatically detect schemas, data types, and anomalies 
D. Use add-ins such as Microsoft Power Query to identify issues and clean data 

ANS: B. Transform data into a variety of formats such as TSV, CSV, XLS, XML, and JSON 

3.Question 3
What is one of the steps in a typical data cleaning workflow? 

A. Inspecting data to detect issues and errors 
B. Building classification models  
C. Clustering data 
D. Establishing relationships between data events  

ANS: A. Inspecting data to detect issues and errors 

4. Question 4
When you’re combining rows of data from multiple source tables into a single table, what kind of data transformation are you performing? 

A. Joins 
B. Denormalization 
C. Normalization 
D. Unions 

ANS: D. Unions 

5. Question 5
When you detect a value in your data set that is vastly different from other observations in the same data set, what would you report that as? 

A. Irrelevant data 
B. Syntax error 
C. Outlier 
D. Missing value 

ANS: A. Irrelevant data 

Week 4:
Practice quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What is one of the common measures of Central Tendency? 

A. Classification 
B. Mean 
C. Regression 
D. Variance  

ANS: B. Mean 

2. Question 2
What technique is used to help identify the nature of the relationship between two variables? 

A. Clustering
B. Regression
C. Classification
D. Anomaly Detection

ANS: B. Regression

3. Question 3
What Python libraries are commonly used for data mining?  

A. Pandas
B. NumPy
C. Tm
D. twitter

ANS: A. Pandas B. NumPy

Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
What is a branch of mathematics dealing with the collection, analysis, interpretation, and presentation of numerical or quantitative data?

A. Calculus
B. Pie 
C. Statistics
D. Algebra

ANS: C. Statistics

2. Question 2
Data Mining is defined as the process of:

A. Preparing raw data for analysis
B. Identifying errors in data 
C. Extracting knowledge from data
D. Filtering data based on pre-defined criteria

ANS: C. Extracting knowledge from data

3. Question 3
What type of data mining operations was R specifically built to handle? 

A. Classification of data 
B. Sorting 
C. Calculating mean, median, and mode 
D. Filtering 

ANS: A. Classification of data 

4. Question 4
When you’re calculating the middle value of a data field in a data set, what are you really calculating? 

A. Mode
B. Mean
C. Median 
D. Average

ANS: C. Median  

5. Question 5
What is the general tendency of a set of data to change over time called?

A. Trend 
B. Anomaly 
C. Variation 
D. Pattern 

ANS: A. Trend 

Practice Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
Data visualizations such as graphs and charts are a great way to bring data to life. 

A. True
B. False

ANS: True

2. Question 2
You can use dashboards to present operational data such as daily progress data, as well as analytical data, such as the overall health of a business function.  

A. True
B. False

ANS: True

3. Question 3
What spreadsheet software is preferred when multiple users need to collaborate?

A. Tableau
B. Microsoft Excel 
C. R-Studio
D. Google Sheets

ANS: D. Google Sheets

Graded Quiz 2:

1. Question 1
"A presentation is not a data dump”. What is the one thing you would do to ensure your presentation is not a data dump?

A. Include only that information as is needed to address the business problem
B. Not include facts and figures in the presentation
C. Deliver the findings in a single slide
D. Not use visuals in the presentation

ANS:  A. Include only that information as is needed to address the business problem

2. Question 2
What is the discipline of communicating information through the use of visual elements?  

A. Data profiling   
B. Data type conversion 
C. Data regression 
D. Data visualization 

ANS: D. Data visualization 

3. Question 3
Matplotlib is a widely used Python data visualization library.

A. True
B. False

ANS: A. True

4. Question 4
What is the goal of Data Visualization? 

A. Make the presentation look attractive 
B. Make information easy to comprehend, interpret, and retain 
C. Establish trust in the audience 
D. Make collaboration easy 

ANS: B. Make information easy to comprehend, interpret, and retain 

5. Question 5
What can you do to help your audience trust you?

A. Share your data sources, hypotheses, and validations 
B. Hand them copies of the data sets you have used for analysis 
C. Share the detailed documentation of every aspect of your project so they can verify all details 
D. Make your presentation look good 

ANS:  A. Share your data sources, hypotheses, and validations 

Week 5
Graded Quiz 1:

1. Question 1
Which of the following statement describes Data Analyst Specialist Roles? 

A. Analysts who advance technical, statistical, and analytical skills, over time, to expert levels 
B. Analysts who specialize in data lakes and data repositories 
C. Analysts who specialize in specific fields like HR, Sales, and Finance
D. Analysts who can work with Machine and Deep Learning models 

ANS:  A. Analysts who advance technical, statistical, and analytical skills, over time, to expert levels 

2. Question 2
A Principal Data Analyst is responsible for: 

A. Being a domain specialist 
B. Having expertise in all tools and technologies used in data analytics   
C. Being well-versed in Big Data processing tools 
D. Establishing processes in the team  

ANS: D. Establishing processes in the team 

3. Question 3
Job roles such as Project Managers, Marketing Managers, and HR Managers, can achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness in their current roles by acquiring data analysis skills, and are therefore known as analytics-enabled job roles.

A. True
B. False

ANS: True

4. Question 4
Which of these is essential for getting started and growing as a Data Analyst?

A. Love for numbers, a curious mind, and openness to learn 
B. A degree in Computer Science 
C. Domain specialization
D. A degree in Statistics 

ANS: A. Love for numbers, a curious mind, and openness to learn

5. Question 5
What Data Analysis roles may be best suited for people with little or no technical training? 

A. Data Analyst   
B. Functional Analyst  
C. Data Scientist   
D. Big Data Engineer 

ANS: B. Functional Analyst 
