Ques 1: List at least 5 (five) data points that are required for the analysis and detection of a credit card fraud. (3 marks)

ANS: For the analysis and detection of credit card fraud, several data points can be helpful. below are 5 of them.
1. IP Address 
2. Shipping Address 
3. Transaction Date
4. Transaction value
5. Unites Purchase

Ques 2: Refer to the data table below and identify 3 (three) errors/issues that could impact the accuracy of your findings. (3 marks)

ANS: Referring to the table there are several errors/issues which may hamper the accuracy of my findings. 3 are listed below
a. missing IP Adress
b. missing transaction values
c. inconsistent date format

Ques 3: Refer to the data table below and identify 2 (two) anomalies or unexpected behaviors, that would lead you to believe the transaction may be suspect. (2 marks)

ANS: From the table here are two (2) anomalies which lead me to believe the transaction may be suspect
a. shipping address of user ID johnp changed from 1542, Orchid Lane, WA 98706, US to in-store.
b. sudden purchase of a laptop by user ellend from using different IP Address and different shipping address.

Ques 4: Briefly explain your key take-away from the provided data visualization chart. (1 mark)

ANS: Here is a visualization table presented from the referring table. the user davidg's transaction and shopping trend seem normal, while the user johnp and ellend's transactions seem to be fine till the first 2 transactions. But there are abnormalities in both of the user's shopping habits and transaction value from the third transaction. 

Ques 5: Identify the type of analysis that you are performing when you are analyzing historical credit card data to understand what a fraudulent transaction looks like. 
Hint: The four types of Analytics include: Descriptive, Diagnostic, Predictive, Prescriptive. (1 mark)

ANS: When I am identifying historical credit card data to understand what a fraudulent transaction looks like I am actually performing Descriptive analysis which describes what happened actually. 
